Okay.
This may sound that I'm serving the brass, but the
one thing that I determined after becoming
general officer was really that the
responsibilities of a general officer are set
apart and much greater than below. And the
stresses on a general officer because of that are
much greater.
They're just a practice in the army that when you
turn a problem over to a general officer, that's as
far as you go with it. It's going to come back
solved, or it's going to be solved on the spot.
The positions that general officers are assigned
to, generally speaking, are positions of
tremendous responsibility. Sure. Oh, I don't
know. I guess another evidence that that's true is
Fran said, I changed. What did she say? In what way?
In personality, in some ways, as a general
officer. I was never conscious of it. What did she
say? Well, she just said she never was that
specific, but she just said, I changed. More
domineering or...? Perhaps less tolerant, not so
much more domineering. Did you think that you had
changed? Less tolerant, less time for this or
that. No, I wasn't aware of it. I think what was
happening, I was adapting to the
responsibilities I had. And to me, that was it. I
was just adapted. I must tell you a little story,
though, that's one of mine and Fran's favorites.
You know, General Westmoreland's wife, Kitty,
was a very attractive woman and a very good partner
for him and
a very friendly type.
We had just had a ceremony in the Pentagon in which
General Westmoreland pinned on the Brigadier
General Starrs on two women, our first general
officers in the army. Your first women general
officers? The first women general officers in the
Army. One was Colonel Hoisington, the Director of
the Army Women's Corps, and the other was the Chief
Army Nurse. The Chief Army Nurse was a personal
friend of Ms. Westmoreland's. Shortly
thereafter, Ms.
Westmoreland was in the beauty shop, having her
hair done at Fort Myer when the chief army nurse
came in and Ms. Westmoreland greeted her again and
congratulated her again on being promoted to
brigadier general. And they conversed a bit and
she said, by the way, I'm looking for a husband. And
the chief army nurse was shocked. She said, what do
you mean? She said, I'm looking for a husband for
you. I want some man to know what it's like to live
with a general.
That is a good one. I thought that was delightful.
That would be a switch wouldn't it? Speaking of
women, let's not discuss the changes at A&M since
the 1960s, and women of course is one of those
changes. and I was wondering what you felt. Was it a
good idea to allow women to go to A&M, or a bad idea? I
can rationalize everything that's happened at
A&M. Well, I want your opinions, not a
rationalization. With regard to women, and with
regard to voluntary corps duty, cadet corps
assignment, but I have differences of opinion.
Now, when I say I can rationalize it, I recall very
much these two decisions, both taken, I believe,
by General Rutter. And I didn't like them.
But I, at the same time, said, well, gosh,
I have been in A&M for years. I have no close
knowledge of what the situation is. How can I be
critical of that decision? But I lament the fact
that we've come to the point, whatever the reason,
that we changed the character of that magnificent
cadet corps, which I think contributed so much to
the individuals in it, and something distinctive
in the form of the product of the corps, not just the
military services, but to the professions or the
undertakings that they entered upon when they
graduated. And I lamented the fact that we found it
necessary to admit women to A&M for reason of
tradition and for the same reason, the cadet
corps. So I guess you can say that I
was so completely sold on the value of that cadet
corps that I didn't want to see anything
disturbing. I couldn't understand why we needed
to admit women to A&M when we have, what is it, 13
other state universities that will admit women.
I didn't understand why we had to make the cadet
corps voluntary when they had all these other
choices for a state institution that can give them
the same courses they can get at A&M. I simply
thought, like any old-timer, most of us didn't
want to see that change. What about blacks? Blacks
I have no problem with, whatever. If you'll
recall, the Army is the first institution in this
nation that integrated the blacks. And it was a
good move, and it was evident to everyone in the
Army that it was a good move. No, I have absolutely
no problem with that. Those were your ideas then in
the early 1960s when all of these changes took
place. Have your ideas changed? Not a bit.
No, I'm proud of A&M today. It went from 6,000 to now
about 34,000 in 20 years. I know. And I'm very proud
of the standards they've maintained at A&M. I'm
not close enough acquainted to evaluate that old
Aggie spirit, but I can't be the same.
But I'm not sure it's good to be so big, but I
understand why we are. As long as we're a state
institution, and particularly one of the two
that's permanently endowed, to be a leading
education institution in this state, and the
state's paying these bills to keep us in business,
how can we say, Mr. Texan, you can't enter A&M?
We're full. When do you get full? You don't, as long
as you can take care of it. So I deplore the
excessive growth, in my opinion, But I understand
it, and I wouldn't suggest that they change the
policy. I don't know how they could. What's your
opinion of General Orwell Rudder? I think he was
great for A&M.
Even though he brought about these changes? I
didn't know him personally, but I think he was a
great leader, and I think he was great for A&M.
Yeah, I disagree with what he did for the reasons
I've given. Sure. But I wasn't there making those
decisions. Right. And I... And I didn't have the
facts, and in the absence of those facts, how can I
criticize him for making those decisions? By the
way, a highlight of my
post-retirement experience was that I was
nominated for consideration to be president of
A&M to succeed General Rutgers. No kidding. I
wasn't aware of that. I was. I was asked for... but
the university wrote me and asked me to submit
information.
And that alone was very flattering, and of course I
appreciated it tremendously, and I knew some of
the people who
had made this suggestion and this nomination. But
at the same time, speaking of General Rudder, I was
not really in close contact with A&M for these
years, never have been able to be. But it was coming
through loud and clear to me that the faculty was
getting damn tired of the general. And I think it
was mainly over the issue of,
what do we call it?
When you've been there a certain number of years,
you have tenure.
You know, he always wanted to retain the right to
fire anybody. At least that's the picture I got. So
I never was unrealistic about my expectations in
that contest to be named. Well, what was your
response when they asked you? Oh, by all means I
responded, yes. Do you think you would have liked
that, John? Ten years ago, I would have, very much.
You bet. Well, what happened? Did they call you
down for an interview? No, I was never called for an
interview, and I think, as I say, my expectations
were not very high, but I was flattered just to be
considered. Sure, absolutely. Anybody would be.
just to be in the pot with the others. Of course,
President Jack Williams was chosen to be
president at that time.
Well, I have one more question. Well, I guess I
might have a couple more. Do you think A&M is a
better institution today, or was it in 1940, 41?
Well, you know I can't answer that. Okay, then one
last one. Not from prejudice, but for lack of real
knowledge. Okay. What are your feelings toward
the draft? We were mentioning a little bit about
that. Do you think that we should go away from the
all-volunteer Army now and go back to the draft, or
drafting women too? What do you feel about these
things? Well, I'd be glad to respond on that. I feel
that we need to go back to the draft, but I recognize
how difficult it's going to be, and it's not going
to be a matter of just saying, tomorrow we're going
to go back. Yeah. But with the proper... national
leadership and congressional leadership
included, I think we can get back there. Now, one
reason we need to go back to the draft is to get the
population involved again, as I've outlined. But
I don't believe we're getting in the volunteer
services what we need. I don't believe we're
getting the, we're falling short on numbers, but I
don't think that's as significant as falling
short in quality. By that I mean, really, the
capabilities of the people to deal with the
technicalities of the services. So I'd like to see
us get back to a selective service system. Now,
when we consider this, we've got to consider how is
it going to be made fair this time.
And I have a feeling that
we really need to reinstitute some form of
universal service in this nation.
And so many people say it's so difficult. What will
you do with all this youth?
Well, by golly. We've talked before. I think that
one in every six or seven people in this nation are
working for the federal government or the state
government or the city or local governments.
Well, why can't we have enough spaces to put these
young people in wherever? In the federal
government, the state government, local
government, or the military? And I think if we set
it up properly, we'd have it in priorities. The
military needs will be met first.
And thereafter, some other order of priorities.
And
there's no reason in the world why we can't absorb
those people if we make room for them. Don't add
them on. Make room for them. If the Army can take a
young soldier for two years and have an effective
soldier from him, why can't you have a clerk from
high school go into the city hall and be effective
for two years? What about drafting women? I'm
against it, because I don't think women should
fight, and I don't think that women are that
essential to a nation that's got a vast richness of
manhood.
Well, we talked about your early years, your
career, your ideas on A&M and a number of other
things. Is there anything that you have jotted
down over there that you think that we should have
covered? Anything that I've missed? Terry, I
think you just brought it all out. There's only one
thing that I'd like to say in summary here. I
certainly don't consider that I'm an authority in
any of these subjects that we've been talking
about, but I do consider that I've been someone
committed to... for 30 years to the security of the
nation. And as such, I've had my own thoughts and
considerations and judgments.
So in review, I think that we're going to get
straightened out with President Reagan, I think.
But I think we've neglected
the importance of national security for several
years. We're out of focus.
balance with our potential enemy. I think that the
world's getting smaller all the time, and as a
matter of fact, space is no longer a mystery. And
space is no longer that vast area. We're in it every
day.
So therefore, the families of nations around the
world are just inevitably going to be drawn closer
and closer. Maybe this is a hope for settling some
of our problems, because we are going to become
more dependent on each other. Look how dependent,
for example, we are today on the Arabian nations,
particularly for oil, for our energy. The
strategic materials we talk about in the
military, particularly metals, we're more
dependent for that on foreign nations than we are
for oil in Arabia.
We can no longer find all the strength we need from
within the United States, you know. So I think that
the Russians are pretty much in the same fix in many
ways, and so I don't want to give the impression
that I'm a doomsday predictor. things have a real
good chance of getting better but we better take
care of our homework in our international
relations and I don't think that we're really and I
don't know what the heck I can do about it but I don't
think that we're really equipped to do that and I
think you know I see the Pentagon reorganized
every time we get a new Secretary of Defense and the
Army reorganized every time we get a new Chief of
Staff
State Department significantly reorganized.
But while we're worrying about Poland,
Afghanistan, and Russia, and what's going to
happen to the French socialist government, for
example, we're not really, again, we're guilty of
not really paying attention to the Western
Hemisphere. And I'm very disturbed about what's
happening in Central America. And of course, I've
had a particular interest in Latin America ever
since I served in Venezuela and have kept some
focus on it. And we have neglected not only the
security aspects of Latin America, but we've
taken for granted so long the economic benefits we
get there that those become more endangered. And I
would just simply like to see us with a better
capability to handle our international
responsibilities. I don't think we handle them.
I'm going to write somebody about that. I don't
know who. I've met General Haig and know him
slightly, but I don't know him well enough to write
a dear Al. Here's my critique. But I did want to
mention that
South America, Latin America, is a particular
concern to me.
this is something that I you know in my I'm now in
isolation here I still think about and then of
course we have discussed the something very close
to me and that is the
the army itself so I guess we've just about hit all
the bases well if you think of anything more open we
can just add When you send me that transcript, I'll
probably have more things to say. Thank you very
much, General Becker.